Before a web form's opt-in rate can soar, your company must offer
exciting content that keeps visitors coming back. You want to make your
customers want to interact with you. Give them a reason to by creating
useful content. This type of content can solve a customer's problem,
give them tips or in any way improve their lives. This will entice them
to click on your customized opt-in form on your website to automatically
receive your newsletters.

Writing engaging content is 10 times more challenging than creating a
web form through the uncomplicated Express Pigeon [email marketing
software](https://expresspigeon.com/gallery)
. We want your message to be heard, so we make it easy to
spread the word. Now you get to writing, while we get to coding!

5 Steps to Organically Grow your Newsletter Recipients
------------------------------------------------------

Use the Express Pigeon web form builder to create an opt-in button for
your website. Visitors to your site can easily sign-up for your
newsletter after filling out a simple form. Here's five simple steps to
create a web form at no extra cost to you when you choose to do email
marketing with Express Pigeon.

![Web forms](${blog_base_url}/images/2012/expresspigeonc2a0e28094c2a0dashboard.jpg "Web forms")

​1) Click on the "Web forms" tab at the top right hand corner, then
click on the "Create a new form" button.

![ExpressPigeon — Web forms - Demo Form](${blog_base_url}/images/2012/expresspigeonc2a0e28094c2a0web-forms-demo-form.jpg "ExpressPigeon — Web forms - Demo Form")
​
 2) Fill in the "General" tab information

Web Form Name: For internal use only. Fill this in to distinguish your
web forms from each other.

Web Form Title (Optional): Text inserted here will display above your
form. Provide an explicit call-to-action to get them to sign-up.

Subtitle (Optional): Use this area to entice the visitor further to
sign-up.

![ExpressPigeon — Web forms - Demo Form-1](${blog_base_url}/images/2012/expresspigeonc2a0e28094c2a0web-forms-demo-form-1.jpg "ExpressPigeon — Web forms - Demo Form-1")

​3) Decide upon the fields in your web form

Place a checkmark on the left next to each field you want displayed in
the form. Place a checkmark next to "Required" for each piece of
information that you want to collect from each subscriber. This means
the subscriber must fill these fields out in order to receive your
newsletters. With Express Pigeon you can collect the following details:

-   Email
-   First Name
-   Last Name
-   Title
-   Address
-   Date of Birth
-   Phone
-   Company

![ExpressPigeon — Web forms - Demo Form-2](${blog_base_url}/images/2012/expresspigeonc2a0e28094c2a0web-forms-demo-form-2.jpg "ExpressPigeon — Web forms - Demo Form-2")

​4) End their registration with a "Big Thank You" by filling out the
"After Submit" tab

Under the Form Submit Feedback Page, make sure to fill in the message
area with a "Big Thanks." Then give them further instructions on what
their next step is, like checking their email for further information.
When they open their email, they will have a double opt-in email to make
sure they want to subscribe to your company's newsletter. After they
confirm the subscription, we'd like to say, "Congrats on a brand new
potential customer!"

![ExpressPigeon — Web forms - Demo Form-3](${blog_base_url}/images/2012/expresspigeonc2a0e28094c2a0web-forms-demo-form-3.jpg "ExpressPigeon — Web forms - Demo Form-3")

​5) Last but not least, the "Confirmation" tab

After your customer clicks the confirmation link in your email they will
be redirected to the information you provide on this tab. Choose between
having them redirected to a display page or a URL. Give the confirmation
page a title, and then add an additional note of thanks and a
confirmation that they have been added to the newsletter list.

For all of these steps you can click "View Online" in the right hand
corner, copy this URL and place it on your website in the content. When
your customers click this link they will be redirected to our website
where this form will be hosted. Or you can choose to click the "Generate
HTML" button to get the technical nitty-gritty code in a flash. Copy and
paste this code onto your website because at Express Pigeon we believe
in the uncomplicated.

