Title: Why you Need Email as Part of your Marketing Strategy
Date: 2012-10-01 21:53
Author: Ashley Hirt




"Don't put all of your eggs in one basket."

This quote reigns true for a successful marketing strategy. You can't
rely solely on your website, blog, social media platforms, or your
offline marketing approaches to reach your customers. You need all of
these components to work together. Your website should contain fresh
content. You should have a blog with informative posts that provide
solutions to problems. You should be active on social media platforms to
have your content shared by key influencers in your industry. Your
offline marketing should support your online initiatives. And lastly,
you need an email marketing program to reach those genuinely interested
in what your company has to offer.

##Reach Your Opt-in List


It's important to reach those customers that will be the most receptive
to the latest information about your company. A great place to begin
your successful email marketing campaign is by reaching those that have
engaged with your company by requesting more information via an email
newsletter. These customers are actively pursuing interaction with your
company.

***How does a newsletter tie together all of your marketing strategy
components?***

For starters, you can send your customers a list of headlines that link
back to your company's most current blog posts. If your company just
began a Facebook contest, write a teaser that will make your customer
click the link to be driven to the contest's landing page. Place a tip
you tweeted in your newsletter to entice your customer to follow your
company on Twitter for more helpful tips. Let everyone know about the
new product line that is available.

Viola! In one newsletter you have just announced numerous components of
your company's marketing strategy at once to interested customers. Don't
just talk about your strategy; place components of it in front of your
valuable email list. The list of individuals who expressed interest in
your products or services. The list of golden opportunity!

Get started today with your email marketing campaign, and be sure to do
it with a simple program, such as Express Pigeon. Create an attention
grabbing email newsletter within minutes with the easy-to-use
drag-and-drop sections to arrange the newsletter any way you please.
Customize your email with uploaded images, and choose a color scheme.
Insert your text, and BAM - hit the send button! You've just completed
one of the most important components of your marketing strategy within
minutes.
