Whether you just heard about the [insanely high ROI of email
marketing](${blog_base_url}/2014/01/06/email-marketing-statistics-2014/)
and decided to build an email list or you're already running a
successful email program and hit a dead end, I'm sure you're looking for
ways to jump-start your list. Before we dive in, make sure you...

1.  **Sign up with an email service provider.**Current [email marketing
    statistics](${blog_base_url}/2014/01/06/email-marketing-statistics-2014/)
    show that businesses using an ESP are more likely to be satisfied
    with their email program than businesses who do not. An [email
    service provider](http://expresspigeon.com) gives you tools to
    easily design and manage your email campaigns.
2.  **Content, content, content.**You need to have something to say in
    your emails. Without producing high quality content, consistently,
    there is no point in email marketing. What are you going to send to
    your audience? Without great content, everything else falls apart.
3.  **Create opt-in incentive for your audience.**You need to give
    people a reason to sign up for your emails. Check out these [10
    opt-in incentive
    ideas](${blog_base_url}/2014/04/21/10-powerful-opt-in-incentives-that-will-get-you-more-email-subscribers/)
    to help you choose the right subscription incentive for your
    audience.
4.  **Update your opt-in process.**There are dozens of tricks to make
    sure your opt-in process is optimized to convert website visitors
    into email subscribers. Check out these [16 opt-in
    tricks](${blog_base_url}/2014/02/24/16-opt-in-tricks-to-grow-your-email-list/)
    to help you.

Now you're ready to grow your list. There are hundreds of ways to get
new subscribers but we often overlook the most obvious tactics. The 7
list-building tactics below are perfect for building an email list from
scratch or jump-starting your program today. Let's dive right in...

**Tactic \#1: Reach out to friends and family.** When you're building an
email list, don't overlook the power of your personal network. In the
early stages, some of the best support you'll get to grow your list can
come from your strongest connections - friends and family.

![](${blog_base_url}/images/2014//familyfriends.jpg)

Sure, some of the people closest to you might have no interest in your
emails. But what about their friends? What about their professional
connections? You never know until you ask. Reaching out to friends and
family can be difficult, so try this:

1.  **Be serious.**If you're not serious about building a list or you
    don't actually care about it, why would you want to tell your
    friends and family? Make sure you plan on following through with
    what you're selling. Otherwise, you'll hear about it forever. It's
    not worth ruining your personal relationships unless you are 100%
    committed.
2.  **Don't be serious.**Contact your friends with your usual
    communication method. If you usually call your cousin, don't email
    her out of the blue with a request. Call her, and if she wants to
    help, send a follow-up email. Keep it fun, keep it casual. Just
    because you're looking for help with your business does not mean you
    should suddenly change your approach or tone.
3.  **Make the ask.** Make it easy for your friends and family to help
    you. One of the best ways to do this is to share a link to your
    [subscription](${blog_base_url}/2013/11/18/custom-email-subscription-form/)
    in your email page and provide a clear call-to-action. Do you want
    them to share the link with one friend they know would love your
    emails? Or simply share the link on their Facebook wall? It's up to
    you to choose the ask - you know them better than I do. ;)

Friends and family are usually willing to help unless you stole the last
piece of turkey on Thanksgiving. If you are confident in what you're
building, you should have no problem turning to friends and family for
their help. This is a very overlooked way to build a list. **Tactic \#2:
Send a reengagement email to your dated opt-in list.** Are you sitting
on an [opt-in email
list](${blog_base_url}/2014/02/24/16-opt-in-tricks-to-grow-your-email-list/)
that you built years ago? Send a reengagement email to give subscribers
the option to re-subscribe to your emails. This is a great way to build
your list and ensure that subscribers are engaged and interested in your
campaigns. Remember, this is for opt-in lists only - [buying email lists
is
illegal](${blog_base_url}/2014/02/12/11-reasons-to-never-purchase-an-email-list/).
**Tactic \#3: Send one-to-one emails to old contacts.** Over the years,
I'm sure you've emailed hundreds, if not thousands, of people that are
interested in the topics you cover in your email campaigns. Even if you
haven't stayed in touch with these connections, you can still engage
them to sign up for your emails. But how do you go about it without
spamming?

1.  **Make a list of connections.** Take a look at your address book and
    make a list of connections that might be interested in your emails.
    You can easily export contact lists from most ISPs.
2.  **Draft a template email.**Write an email that explains the general
    benefits of your newsletter and links to your subscription form.
    This will be your template to work from when sending one-to-one
    emails to each contact on your list.
3.  **Send personalized emails to each individual connection.**Working
    from your template, write an email to every contact on your list.
    Make sure you include a memory cue or hint to showcase that this is
    a one-to-one email and not spam.

This tactic sounds tedious, but you'd be surprised by how many of your
old contacts will respond to your email. Even if you don't get as many
subscribers as you want, your outreach can refresh professional
relationships that will add value elsewhere. Don't get lazy and try to
send an email blast - [spam is
illegal](http://www.business.ftc.gov/documents/bus61-can-spam-act-compliance-guide-business).
**Tactic \#4: Take advantage of LinkedIn.** LinkedIn is an extremely
powerful social channel for professional networking and promotion. Here
are a few ways to take advantage of LinkedIn to promote your email
subscription and attract new subscribers:

1.  **Send private messages to key connections.**Identify connections
    that are in industries that might benefit from your email
    subscription and send them private messages. Make sure to keep each
    message somewhat unique because LinkedIn users can mark messages as
    spam.
2.  **Share your email subscription in LinkedIn Groups.**If you're not
    already an active member in LinkedIn Groups, get active today.
    LinkedIn Groups are a great place to communicate with industry peers
    on a variety of topics, and a great place to promote your new
    subscription. Make sure you review Group Rules before or you might
    get yourself kicked out.
3.  **Share your email subscription on activity feeds.**Make a public
    announcement on your personal profile and company page to let people
    know about your emails. Let people know [why they should sign up for
    your
    emails.](${blog_base_url}/2014/04/21/10-powerful-opt-in-incentives-that-will-get-you-more-email-subscribers/)

LinkedIn promotion is great for first-time subscription promotion and
for a more developed email program. As you continue to develop your
email campaigns, tap into LinkedIn Groups and your activity feed to
promote your latest content or [email
newsletter](http://expresspigeon.com). **Tactic \#5: Encourage in-house
sharing.** If you're just introducing email marketing into your
business, engage your team to encourage them to help you drive awareness
to your subscription. The whole team will benefit from better company
performance so promoting your email list should be a win-win for
everyone, but don't force the issue.

![](${blog_base_url}/images/2014/office2.jpg)

If your team supports your business and its direction, they will likely
have no problem promoting your email list. Consider using some tips from
this post to give them direction on how to spread the word. Getting
every member of your team excited to share your subscription can be a
valuable step to reaching more subscribers. **Tactic \#6: Post an ad for
your list on Craigslist** Craigslist can be a surprisingly useful
resource to attract new subscribers. Not only is it free to post ads,
but you can get specific in terms of location and subject matter you're
addressing. Don't believe me? When I was promoting the [launch of an
online social network for music
artists](http://techcrunch.com/2013/08/08/8th-stage-launches-in-beta-to-offer-a-linkedin-for-musicians-with-built-in-talent-development/),
over 80% of our beta users came from Craigslist. I encouraged people to
submit an email address for a chance to join our beta community and
focused on benefits of joining in my messaging. I tested ads in Chicago,
and expanded to other markets once they were successful. Craigslist
won't work for every business but it is especially helpful if you are
building a list for a product launch or a local event. Instead of
creating an ad that sends people to your subscription page, I recommend
communicating the value of your product or event and requesting people
to share an email address directly. **Tactic \#7: Update your email
signature.** Almost no explanation necessary on this one. Simply add a
line to your email signature encouraging people to sign up for your
email list and include a link to your subscription page. Every email you
send can help you get the word out!

![](${blog_base_url}/images/2014/paulsignatureblur.png)

**Conclusion** Building an email list takes time but when you're trying
to get your first 500 subscribers or inject new life into your email
program, direct outreach and simple promotions can make all the
difference. Whether you're calling friends or posting ads on Craigslist,
sometimes its the weird & overlooked tactics that give you the boost you
need to see consistent growth. How would you jump-start a list? Any
tactics to add? If so, keep the ideas on flow and leave comment below!

