*According to reviews from 450 marketing professionals, ExpressPigeon's
user satisfaction and feature ratings place it next to Mailchimp,
Constant Contact, ExactTarget, and other industry-leading ESPs.*

![](${blog_base_url}/images/2014/04/grid2.png)

CHICAGO - April 10, 2014 - Innovative email service provider changing
the way marketing email is prepared and sent, ExpressPigeon, was named
one of the top email marketing software vendors on[G2
Crowd's](http://www.g2crowd.com/) The Grid℠, a proprietary software
recommendation engine. Nearly 450 marketing professionals reviewed their
email marketing tools to provide user satisfaction and feature ratings.
ExpressPigeon users ranked it among the highest in its category. In
fact, 100% of ExpressPigeon users on G2 Crowd believe it is headed in
the right direction, putting it in a strong position against major
competitors including Mailchimp, Constant Contact, ExactTarget, Aweber,
and dotMailer.

G2 Crowd awarded ExpressPigeon High Performer recognition, an award for
products that are rated highly by users but have not achieved major
market share. ExpressPigeon outperformed all other [email marketing
tools](http://expresspigeon.com) in user rankings for ease of use, ease
of setup, ease of admin, and ease of doing business with. In addition,
ExpressPigeon users rated the platform's features highest among email
marketing solutions.

ExpressPigeon received the following scores from marketing
professionals:

-   Number One in Ease of Setup. ExpressPigeon earned a 96% user
    satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 83%.

-   Number One in Ease of Use. ExpressPigeon earned a 97% user
    satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 85%.

-   Number One in Ease of Admin. ExpressPigeon earned a 93% user
    satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 83%.

-   Number One in Ease of Doing Business. ExpressPigeon earned a 96%
    user satisfaction rating compared to The Grid average of 85%.

-   Number One in Average User Satisfaction. ExpressPigeon earned a 96%
    user satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 85%.

-   Number One in Email Marketing Features. ExpressPigeon earned a 97%
    user satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 87%.

-   Number One in Platform Features. ExpressPigeon earned a 98% user
    satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 86%.

“These rankings are a strong validation of our continued emphasis on
listening to customers and improving our platform,” said Igor Polevoy,
President of ExpressPigeon. “Having used other ESPs while managing large
IT projects, I did not have the best experience, and saw an opportunity
to build something better. After spending more than two years developing
our product, we’re excited to make it the most intuitive email marketing
system. When we get [rave
reviews](http://www.g2crowd.com/products/expresspigeon/reviews), I feel
we are moving in the right direction.”

ExpressPigeon ease of use eliminates the usual stress of email
marketing. The platform helps its users design fast, deliver on time,
and track everything, with no technical knowledge required. Partnering
with predictive analytics
engine,[SimpleRelevance](https://www.simplerelevance.com/), allows
ExpressPigeon to offer its customers industry-leading personalized email
content such as unique product recommendations, optimized deals, images
that fit each customers’ preferences and more. It eliminates the need to
manually segment because each email is specifically targeted to each
customer.

To learn more and view The Grid℠, go to G2 Crowd
[here](http://www.g2crowd.com/).

*According to reviews from 450 marketing professionals, ExpressPigeon's
user satisfaction and feature ratings place it next to Mailchimp,
Constant Contact, ExactTarget, and other industry-leading ESPs.*

![](${blog_base_url}/images/2014/grid2.png)

CHICAGO - April 10, 2014 - Innovative email service provider changing
the way marketing email is prepared and sent, ExpressPigeon, was named
one of the top email marketing software vendors on[G2
Crowd's](http://www.g2crowd.com/) The Grid℠, a proprietary software
recommendation engine. Nearly 450 marketing professionals reviewed their
email marketing tools to provide user satisfaction and feature ratings.
ExpressPigeon users ranked it among the highest in its category. In
fact, 100% of ExpressPigeon users on G2 Crowd believe it is headed in
the right direction, putting it in a strong position against major
competitors including Mailchimp, Constant Contact, ExactTarget, Aweber,
and dotMailer.

G2 Crowd awarded ExpressPigeon High Performer recognition, an award for
products that are rated highly by users but have not achieved major
market share. ExpressPigeon outperformed all other [email marketing
tools](http://expresspigeon.com) in user rankings for ease of use, ease
of setup, ease of admin, and ease of doing business with. In addition,
ExpressPigeon users rated the platform's features highest among email
marketing.

ExpressPigeon received the following scores from marketing
professionals:

-   Number One in Ease of Setup. ExpressPigeon earned a 96% user
    satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 83%.

-   Number One in Ease of Use. ExpressPigeon earned a 97% user
    satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 85%.

-   Number One in Ease of Admin. ExpressPigeon earned a 93% user
    satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 83%.

-   Number One in Ease of Doing Business. ExpressPigeon earned a 96%
    user satisfaction rating compared to The Grid average of 85%.

-   Number One in Average User Satisfaction. ExpressPigeon earned a 96%
    user satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 85%.

-   Number One in Email Marketing Features. ExpressPigeon earned a 97%
    user satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 87%.

-   Number One in Platform Features. ExpressPigeon earned a 98% user
    satisfaction rating compared to The Grid℠ average of 86%.

“These rankings are a strong validation of our continued emphasis on
listening to customers and improving our platform,” said Igor Polevoy,
President of ExpressPigeon. “Having used other ESPs while managing large
IT projects, I did not have the best experience, and saw an opportunity
to build something better. After spending more than two years developing
our product, we’re excited to make it the most intuitive email marketing
system. When we get [rave
reviews](http://www.g2crowd.com/products/expresspigeon/reviews), I feel
we are moving in the right direction.”

ExpressPigeon ease of use eliminates the usual stress of email
marketing. The platform helps its users design fast, deliver on time,
and track everything, with no technical knowledge required. Partnering
with predictive analytics
engine,[SimpleRelevance](https://www.simplerelevance.com/), allows
ExpressPigeon to offer its customers industry-leading personalized email
content such as unique product recommendations, optimized deals, images
that fit each customers’ preferences and more. It eliminates the need to
manually segment because each email is specifically targeted to each
customer.

To learn more and view The Grid℠, go to G2 Crowd
[here](http://www.g2crowd.com/).
