Why am I getting my campaign from ExpressPigeon, and not from me?
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Customers sometimes ask:

> Why is the "Reply To" address sender@expresspigeon.com, and not the
> one I configured, and how to change it?

The answer is simple: Only the customer sees it that way. All actual
subscribers see campaign emails as coming from the customer. We do it to
avoid one of many spam filters ISPs put in to fight against spam. It
used to be a typical technique for spammers to send you an email and
pretend it is coming from you. In other words, if the "From" and "To"
addresses are the same, then there is a higher risk to find that email
in the spam folder. However, our customers usually like to add their
addresses to campaign lists to see that our system is performing as
expected (especially in cases of scheduled campaigns). In order to avoid
spam filters, in this case, we substitute the "From" email to
sender@expresspigeon.com only for our customers. In other words, only
the customer who sends an email will receive a copy from us, everyone
else will get it from configured address. A general recommendation for
"From" and "Reply To" is to keep them human and not fall into a
"noreply" wormhole. People are more likely to open an email from a human
rather that some faceless corporation.

How to configure From and Reply To
----------------------------------

Our email marketing platform allows you to configure the From and Reply
To addresses per list, and also allows to override that when you
actually send. Each list has properties tab, where you can configure:

[![list\_properies](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/list_properies.png)](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/list_properies.png)

When you are sending to such a list, we will grab "From" and "Reply to"
from its configuration. However, you can still change it at the last
moment on a campaign send page:

[![campaign\_prepare](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/campaign_prepare.png)](/blog/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/campaign_prepare.png)

Happy emailin' :)
