[![image](http://photos.foter.com/134/3-366-y2-bestest-friends_l.jpg)](http://foter.com/photo/3-366-y2-bestest-friends/)

The social media vs. email marketing discussion continues. But not here.
Don't get me wrong, I uncovered mind shattering [email marketing
statistics](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/2014/01/06/email-marketing-statistics-2014/)
that show email marketing is a better ROI than social media. But social
media and email play better together than they do apart. You can run an
effective social media or email campaign without integration. But what
happens if you combine your efforts? The truth is, you won't know until
you try. *Let's jump right in so you can see for yourself...* **Tactic
\#1: Add social media icons to emails.** Adding social media icons to
emails is a simple way to encourage subscribers to connect with you on
social media. A subscriber who becomes a fan or follower will have more
exposure to your brand and a better chance to receive your message and
take action. With [ExpressPigeon](http://expresspigeon.com), you can
easily add social media icons to emails. In the editor, click "Add
Image" and you will find plenty of icons in the "Social" category.
[![social\_icons\_EP](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/social_icons_EP.png)](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/social_icons_EP.png)
Once you've selected an icon, you can click on it within the editing
window and link it to your social channel URL. If you don't see an icon
you like in the gallery, you can easily upload your own images. Give it
a try [here](https://expresspigeon.com/access/registration?plan=free).
**Tactic \#2: Email subscribers about your social media accounts.** You
can email subscribers to encourage them to connect with you on a
specific social media channel. Keep emails channel-specific to maintain
a clear call-to-action. Think about what you offer via your social
channel that you don't via email. One of the best ways to encourage
connection is to include some of your most popular posts from the past
week or so. For example, Cool Mom Tech sends weekly emails with their 5
favorite pins:
[![cool\_mom\_tech\_pins\_email](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/cool_mom_tech_pins_email.png)](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/cool_mom_tech_pins_email.png)
This is a great way to encourage social sharing and build your social
media following. Remember - subscribers gave you permission to email
them and social media is a less personal commitment. It's usually worth
the ask. **Tactic \#3: Ask subscribers to share your emails & content.**
****Subscribers don't necessarily know what action you want them to
take. Be direct and ask them to share your email or content within your
email via a specific social media channel. If your email is valuable to
subscribers, they will be proud to share it. But how do you add social
share buttons or links to emails? It's easy to add a "Forward To A
Friend" link with [ExpressPigeon](http://expresspigeon.com) but adding
social sharing links can be more difficult. One of the easiest ways to
do it is by adding a Tweet link using [Click to
Tweet](http://clicktotweet.com/). See how Jeff Goins does it
here:[![Jeff\_Goins\_Email](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/Jeff_Goins_Email.png)](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/Jeff_Goins_Email.png)
You can also add sharing links for specific content within your email.
For example, I wrote an article on [33 email marketing
statistics](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/2014/01/06/email-marketing-statistics-2014/)
earlier this year. Within an ExpressPigeon email, I can add statistics
with Tweet links like these:

-   Email marketing ROI = 4,300%. [tweet this](http://ctt.ec/8VdBf)
-   Companies view email marketing as a better return on investment than
    content marketing & social media. [tweet this](http://ctt.ec/hx9N4)
-   Email marketing responsibilities usually fall on one person as a
    part of a wider range of marketing responsibilities. [tweet
    this](http://ctt.ec/8oK6r)

With the ExpressPigeon [Button Maker
Widget](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/2013/10/01/go-wild-making-buttons-in-your-email-campaigns/),
I can transform a statistic from above into a beautiful call-to-action
in the heart of my email:
[![Click\_to\_tweet\_example](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/Click_to_tweet_example.png)](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/Click_to_tweet_example.png)
Let's look at another great example from [Content Marketing
Institute](http://contentmarketinginstitute.com/). They explicitly ask
people to share a piece of content within their
emails:[![cmi\_image](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/cmi_image.png)](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/cmi_image.png)
If your audience shares your content as desired, their social media
connections may visit your site. And with a few [opt-in
tricks](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/2014/02/24/16-opt-in-tricks-to-grow-your-email-list/)
in place, new visitors can become long-term email subscribers. Whether
you're encouraging subscribers to share your full email or content
within it, the more they share, the better chance you have of building
your email audience. **Tactic \#4: Promote your latest email on social
media.** You can promote your emails on social media like you would any
other valuable content. To find your email URL, you can open your latest
email and click on "View Online" in the upper-right corner:
![open\_online\_1](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/open_online_1.png)
Now that you have an email URL, you are ready to identify social
channels to share it on. You can do this by thinking about what
audiences will get the most value out of this particular email. Create
social media posts tailored to each audience. Remember - your LinkedIn
followers and Twitter followers may be interested in your email for
different reasons. Driving traffic to emails via social media is a great
way to increase clicks and attract new subscribers. See email promotion
in action by [clicking here](http://ctt.ec/Ar8aI). **Tactic \#5: Promote
your email subscription in social media posts.** Encourage social media
connections to sign up for your emails. You can do this by creating
channel-specific posts that link directly to your [subscription
form](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/2013/11/18/custom-email-subscription-form/)
on ExpressPigeon or the subscription page on your website. Here's an
example of how we promoted our emails in a recent Tweet:

> Thousands of people receive our email marketing tips by email. Join
> the conversation here:
> [https://t.co/FJzsqpEbBw](https://t.co/FJzsqpEbBw) â€” ExpressPigeon
> (@ExpressPigeon) [March 19,
> 2014](https://twitter.com/ExpressPigeon/statuses/446148485759254528)

Remember that how you promote your newsletter will vary depending on
channel. Keep the post cohesive with the rest of your posts. Here are a
few post ideas you can use to promote your email subscription:

-   We're offering a 25% discount in our next email newsletter. Want it?
    LINK
-   Want to join our email conversation? Do it here: LINK
-   Want a free book on How To Grow Your Email List? Get it here: LINK
-   We have a special surprise for our email subscribers this week. Sign
    up to see what it is! LINK
-   Are you missing out on our weekly emails? Join the conversation
    here: LINK

**Tactic \#6: Incorporate email into a contest.** Are you running a
contest on your website or social media? This can be a great way to
build your email list. I know from experience. I worked with a
television show that explores travel destinations and designed a
Facebook contest to give away free vacations to destinations featured on
the show. People entered the contest by providing an email address
within a Facebook tab. On the entry page in the tab, people had *the
option* to subscribe to:

1.  Emails about the show.
2.  Emails about the travel destination.

Just because people enter the contest doesn't mean they want emails. I
recommend giving them an option. If entrants don't sign up, you can
remind them in a "you didn't win the contest" email... Unless of course
they actually won. ;) Here's an example of how [Travel
Channel](http://www.travelchannel.com/) is collecting emails for a
contest on their website:
[![travelchannel\_contest](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/travelchannel_contest.png)](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/travelchannel_contest.png)
If your contest lives on your website like this, social media is vital
for promotion. Consider using social advertising, paid posts, and other
ways to drive traffic to your contest. No matter what social media
contest you run, this is a great way to build your list. How will you
continue the conversation? **Tactic \#7: Promote valuable website
content on social media.** Do you have an active blog or linkable assets
like web-tools or ebooks? You should. You can generate dozens of
traffic-generating social media posts for every piece of content you
create. As long as you have [opt-in
tricks](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/2014/02/24/16-opt-in-tricks-to-grow-your-email-list/)
in place to convert visitors into email subscribers, you can turn that
social media traffic into a growing email list. Let's say you just
published a new blog post. What can do you do next?

1.  Identify the target audience for the post.
2.  Identify social media channels where this target audience is most
    active.
3.  Generate a series of social media posts to promote the post,
    tailored specifically to each social channel and audience. Use a
    service like [Sprout Social](http://sproutsocial.com) to save,
    schedule, or publish your posts.
4.  Sit back and let your [opt-in
    process](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/2014/02/24/16-opt-in-tricks-to-grow-your-email-list/)
    transform new visitors into email subscribers.

Remember - This only works if you have an opt-in process in place to
[effectively convert your website visitors into email
subscribers.](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/2014/02/24/16-opt-in-tricks-to-grow-your-email-list/)

Conclusion
==========

It seems that social media and email marketing were meant to be
together. You are now ready to fuel your email efforts with social media
and your social media efforts with email marketing. What do you think?
Do you have any tactics to add to the list? If so, keep the ideas on
flow by leaving a comment below! :)

![image](http://blog.expresspigeon.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/11/ep_badge.png)

### Send better email.

Join thousands who receive timely email marketing tips.

No SPAM. We promise.

|
